in a sentence the problem with digital
veganism in this respect the problem
with the internet view of the world is
that people come to regard weakness as
strengths people think that defining
yourself more narrowly and in connection
to one of these political causes makes
veganism stronger and it doesn't it
makes it weaker in technology people
talk about the difference between the
early adopters of a technology and the
mass-market
who happens to be the type of person to
try something out when it's new and
unreliable and expensive as opposed to
the potential for something to reach
millions of people the colorful cast of
characters of eccentrics who quit their
jobs and drop out of university to start
a YouTube channel to show off you know
them riding a bicycle wearing a bikini
they are early adopters and the question
is where you live
who is the mass-market YouTube does not
show me the grandmother's who are
sitting at home who would write a check
and donate to support the Green Party or
who would donate to support a vegan
party a vegan cause of some kind if you
had an organization doing advocacy for
any particular issue under the heading
of vegan of who are those people and how
do you reach out to them those
grandmothers writing the checks and that
will be different it's different in
Spain it's different in Germany it's
different from one city to another in
Canada it's different in Montreal from
from Vancouver who are those people and
how do you reach them I can tell you one
thing for goddamn sure you are gonna
alienate those people you are not gonna
reach those people you are not gonna
earn their trust or support by
identifying yourself with Marxism
libertarianism intersectional feminism
or any other radical political ideology
that only provides vegans with the
ego-trip of being rebellious of being
revolutionary of being
anti-establishment
evolution
ah buh move yen hey guys
making my usual cavi here if I look
exhausted that's because I am exhausted
I'm recording this at about what I am
I'm having one of these nights which is
kind of wonderful and terrible at the
same time because I don't have a regular
job I have to wake up four in the
morning if I decide I'm gonna do 200
push-ups before I go to sleep I can stay
up as late as I need to to get those
tuner push-ups done if I decide I'm
gonna get a certain amount of reading
done before I go to sleep I can stay up
and get that reading done so this is a
luxury actually very few of us have in
life and I have very few luxuries in my
life but right now this is one of them
so there's a gap between digital
veganism veganism is represented here on
the internet by people like myself and
including myself in the reality of who
normal vegans are or average vegans are
and this matters because the potential
for vegans to make a difference in the
world in terms of getting organized
socially or otherwise is gonna rely on
those normal vegans or average vegans
wherever you happen to live they're not
gonna be the same kind of people in
Spain as they would be in Germany or not
the same in California as they are in
Canada and knowing and getting to grips
with who becomes vegan even in your
particular City that's gonna be a
necessary first step to figuring out
what's possible even at the level of
organizing a tiny you know local charity
I mean if if the vegans in your city all
really care about saving the whales even
though you personally you may not think
veganism is all that linked to you know
preserving whale habitat or wild whale
populations I think that is the kind of
thing you got to work with where you got
to recognize okay look unlike the people
on the Internet this is the reality of
who vegans are where I'm at this is what
I can work with this is who I can work
with and then go from there um the type
of pragmatic down-to-earth attitude I've
just described is very much the opposite
of what is currently ruling the internet
I can remember vegan gains openly
saying vegan gains the name of YouTube
personality openly saying that if you're
vegan and you're not an athlete you're
not a bodybuilder you're not lean and
beautiful then you should not let anyone
know in public that you're vegan and his
thinking there was that vegans should
keep up this illusion that veganism is a
panacea for obesity that it's an easy
solution for being overweight that if
you're vegan you're automatically going
to be beautiful and vibrant and athletic
now
vegan gains he's a guy who's been to
many bodybuilding conferences I don't
know if he's ever gone to an
animal-rights conference or any kind of
political event like that for a quick
contrast I got some email from a guy who
is a tall thin guy living in Europe
he's vegan and he goes to vegan events
of many different kinds in person not
not just on the internet and he told me
in responding to various themes raised
in my videos he said to me look he
happens to be the type of tall thin guy
who really prefers overweight women to
be blunt he prefers fat women that's his
preference and he says there is no
problem finding vegan women who are
seriously overweight and all of these
events he goes to in contrast to what's
presented on the Internet
the reality is fat vegans are really
common as a very interesting perspective
of course it's coming from somebody
who's happy about it mmm you know but
his point is this illusion that you know
vegans are by default or
disproportionally very lean or very
athletic or something it doesn't square
with reality on the ground now that's a
very simple example because it's
physical you can get into a lot of other
more difficult examples I've repeatedly
called attention to the problem that
look don't get into the assumption that
all vegans are left-wing if you believe
veganism is for everyone then you have
to believe it's also for at least
conservatives moderates liberals
what-have-you and a lot of what I see
going on in the internet is instead
vegans trying to attach veganism
to an even smaller even more radical or
failed ideology give you I don't know
two examples of what I mean here I have
spoken directly with a guest three
different vegans who were really
interested in attaching veganism to
intersectionality as people say which is
really a shorthand for intersectional
feminism now in all three cases people
is talking to you I said well you know
um intersectional feminism is a really
small movement it this is not a
criticism of the substance or content
which is another question but you have
to appreciate we talk about
intersectional feminism you're talking
about something that almost exclusively
exists inside universities for people
who have a career in the academic study
of feminism academic study of women's
issues in history so if you compare
intersectional ism to Marxism Marxism is
something that that the vast majority
people regard now as as a failure as a
joke as you know just a chapter of the
world's history that's over and as a
political movement that has no future as
a political movement that has no
significant following well in relative
scale Marxism is enormous compared to
intersectional feminism depending on
where you live in the world if you live
somewhere like Greece today
Marxism may be very vibrant and powerful
locally where you live you might be able
to make an argument that veganism can
grow and be more influential by
infiltrating your local Marxist party of
trying to get the Marxist party to
formally recognize veganism as a goal or
as an aspect of its platform now where I
live in Canada that would be a joke I
mean you know Marxism here is very
marginal and of course it's scorned
because it is strongly associated with a
history of mass murder
the connection between Marxism and you
know violent communist regimes is very
meaningful and important and it
shouldn't be denied or overlooked
however I mean I raised the the example
of Marxism just as a
contrast why would you as a vegan think
that the way to make this tiny and
powerless movement more powerful more
influential is to attach it to an even
tinier even more powerless even less
respected movement such as
intersectional feminism again I don't
say that out of any hatred for the
particular example I am raising this
under this rubric because I think this
is the type of misperception or
misconception that comes out of vegans
living so much on the internet a large
percentage of vegans only have vegan
friends via the internet they don't know
other vegans face-to-face in real life
and I can sympathize and you know
basically the situation I've been in
most of the time I've been vegan I'm you
know whatever whoever my girlfriend is
at the time um what would be vegan also
and then outside of that you know do you
know any vegans face to face in the city
happen to be living in it stuff so you
know for me to most most of you know my
sense of what normal vegans are is like
is also warped I often say to people
look I don't know what normal vegans are
like I know what vegans on YouTube are
like I know what vegan that I know the
tiny minority of vegans who you know
have the self-confidence to get on
camera or to write a blog or the right
articles I know what those people are
like and of course there's a distortion
and that distortion is partly Geographic
because I'm looking at kind of the
boldest and the bravest of people from
England California India Hong Kong it
doesn't represent the potential for
political action in my city partly just
because it's cosmopolitan and partly
because these are mostly not people who
have a job not people who have kids or a
normal life these are often people who
are trying to earn an income from their
internet presence you know already I've
also outlined the many ways in which my
channel is different from that norm and
obviously look I mean I'm not hating on
it
I'm not saying vegan YouTube shouldn't
exist I am a fan I'm a fan
I mean these people all know me and you
know the people I'm a fan of your
channel you know I'm a fan cuz I've told
you et cetera I I send I don't just get
fan mail I send people fan mail I'm
happy that there are people spreading
this message on YouTube however all
sorts of distortions arise because of
this sort of unexamined gap between
digital veganism and real world veganism
and the latter may be really hard to
look into now again I'm not raising this
concern because I'm afraid Outsiders
will look at vegans the internet and
think vegans are dumb I'm not raising it
because I'm afraid that people like
vegan gains people on YouTube with
extreme opinions make veganism look bad
that's not my concern at all I'm
concerned about you guys my viewers and
the people right into me who are trying
to organize veganism into something
politically not knowing where to stop
not knowing where to start we'll worry
about where to stop later am i right um
and being really misled this way now
another example I get a lot of reactions
from a guy called Ron Paul girls who is
both my number one fan and my number one
critic and instead of intersectional ism
or Marxism he's wanting veganism to be
attached to libertarianism specifically
he has his own eccentric view of
ecological libertarianism which is
interesting to talk about in some ways
because I think one of the clearest
weaknesses of libertarianism is exactly
its relationship to ecology the vast
majority of libertarians like
anarcho-capitalists will just say well
if it's your private property you can do
whatever you want with it well if you
buy a piece of land and cut down all the
trees this is a problem you know they're
just obvious issues of regulations and
government paternalism government
oversight and an intervention they come
up under the heading of ecology and they
come up for vegans too anyway that's his
approach that's interesting if you're
just talking about you know people on
the Internet
and the distorted view of the world you
get through the internet you might think
this sounds like a viable approach or
what have you
it's not and it's not for the same
reasons that I've been talking about
just now we come from a culture anyone
who speaks English anyone in the modern
Western world we come from a culture and
an era that reviews that pardon me that
a culture in an era that treats
rebelliousness as a positive trait in
and of itself and people slip into the
assumption very easily that veganism is
a revolutionary movement simply because
it's a challenge to one aspect of the
establishment well veganism isn't and
you make veganism weaker by attaching it
to any kind of rebellious or
revolutionary cause for the same reasons
look a campaign to and cigarette smoking
is not inherently rebellious or
revolutionary a campaign to save the
whales or any other pragmatic you know
habitat related wilderness related
single issue like that it doesn't get
stronger by so seeing itself with
radical politics or rebellious
revolutionary politics if you you know
whatever let's see the example if
there's there are seven dolphins left
and a certain stretch of the river
you're trying to preserve that habitat
save this endangered species no other
example monkeys are left but a very
small patch of habitat last few families
at the given species of monkey etc the
last thing you're gonna want to do is
let's say you organize your five friends
who care about this specific issue the
last thing you're going to want to do is
to hit your cart to some obscure radical
philosophy whether it's Marxism or
intersectional feminism or
libertarianism this is not pragmatic if
you have five people together and you're
trying to change the local bylaws about
cigarette smoking where you live you're
trying to get an anti-smoking campaign
running which in some parts of Europe is
still a really necessary jail but
depending where you live that may all be
in the past tense but there's some
places where that's still a big a big
struggle to reduce the use of of tobacco
however many people you have involved at
the beginning five people ten people
whatever you say okay we're gonna form
this anti-smoking committee this ending
smoking campaign the worst thing you
could do is say we're only going to let
people join who are intersectional
feminists or we're only going to let
people join who are libertarians or
we're only going to participate with and
we're gonna try to infiltrate the local
libertarian party this is taking an
incredibly small and weak political
movement and making it even smaller and
weaker so in a sentence the problem with
digital veganism in this respect the
problem with the internet view of the
world is that people come to regard
weakness as strengths people think that
defining yourself more narrowly and in
connection to one of these political
causes makes veganism stronger and it
doesn't it makes it weaker now why is
that this is part of the world of likes
and thumbs up and all kinds of things I
mean yes if you have an obscure blog and
instead of just being vegan you identify
with any one of these tiny political
parties or movements your blog may now
get more attention more comments more
fan mail more thumbs up more viewers on
YouTube or have you on that scale this
kind of factionalism is rewarded you can
get a niche market a niche viewership
that grows very easily and probably
someone like there's a channel called a
privileged vegan she identified with I
don't know some of the most far-out she
took on a certain ideological pose that
got her a lot of attention from non
vegans and I think she found that very
rewarding you know whatever I'm happy
for her good for her I certainly have
some criticism over on this channel but
you know whatever for an individual
person who has that experience of okay
look this ideology took my channel from
obscurity to a certain level of
attention globally let's say again let's
say it's Marxism any of these people or
anarchism I mean anarchism still you
know I actually I don't see many vegan
channels that are sincerely interested
in anarchism what I tend to see are
vegans who
flirt with the faded memory of the role
in urk ISM and the a LF had twenty years
ago in animal rights and then I think
they seem to lose interest maybe because
the reality of what the al F is like
today or the reality of of anarchism in
in ecology and veganism a I don't know
but for right now that seems to be out
of flat out of fashion at a style but
obviously it's easy to imagine that
could come back into style and so again
whatever your blog your YouTube channel
if you identified with anarchism or
Marxism that could easily bring you more
you know another ten thousand viewers
internationally but it is alienating you
from exactly the people who could
actually support your movement
organization in your city or your town
now to actually accomplish something
worthwhile now we again what whatever
you think of as the example of local
activity and organization I've had many
examples on this channel this guy in
London violent vegan he's trying to
organize a vegan hot dog shop a hot dog
stand is a form of outreach and of
course it's hard to find people to work
with anyway so just say not not all
political organization and activism is
about a street protest so in technology
people talk about the difference between
the early adopters of a technology and
the mass market who happens to be the
type of person to try something out when
it's new and I'm reliable and expensive
as opposed to the potential for
something to reach millions of people
veganism this is one of the problems you
know people like me are in a sense early
adopters the colorful cast of characters
of eccentrics who quit their jobs and
drop out of university to start a
YouTube channel to show off you know
them riding a bicycle and wearing a
bikini they are early adopters and the
question is where you live
who is the mass-market this is point one
point two so one of the criticisms are
received
some people think I'm praising the Green
Party
Party of Canada and on the contrary I
have said nothing but kind of scorn and
derision above the Green Party of Canada
incredible low opinion with me Party
Canada I think it's garbage
but I raised it as an example to show
the level of organization that vegans
have not yet even achieved and I've
raised this example in contrast and
saying like well if you really think
there's hope for the future through this
or that vegan organization let's compare
how far it's come to the Green Party not
an uncritical fan of the Green Party on
the card to have said repeatedly the
Green Party of Canada one of the things
I despise about it is they actively
support the milk and dairy industry
where they want the government to give
more money to support the milk and dairy
in it they want more subsidies and you
know this stupid nationalistic rhetoric
of the government has to protect the
Canadian dairy industry against the
American dairy industry as if somehow
milk made in America is more evil than
milk made in Canada it's idiotic and
it's an excuse for you know graft of the
worst kind and nobody in the Green Party
is interested in the question of you
know the actual suffering of the cows or
any of the ethical and ecological
realities so anyway I just say anyone
who thinks I'm a fan of the Green Party
you're missing the point of why I have
mentioned it in in previous videos
nevertheless the Green Party for this
video once again is significant
there's the contrast between early
adopters and the mainstream market
mainstream audience there's a contrast
between the political splinter groups
the radicals the internet and the
political mainstream wherever you live
it's going to be very different city to
city but the reality of an organization
of the Green Party is that it's based on
another type of public another type of
constituency when I was involved in
Green Party Ken and many many years ago
the reality was the party only existed
because of a small number of retired
people who donated let's say $100 a
month you know it's not even
stereotypical to say they're retired
um these were elderly people who you
know got involved with ecology in the
1960s and 1970s and who were convinced
that the Green Party had some legitimacy
in Canada and who reached into their
pension and donated $100 a month a very
small number of those people were
providing the the financial lifeline on
which the Green Party existed they were
desperately needed that was the core
constituency and now the Green Party
Canada as I've mentioned it's kind of a
failure in many ways they were also
spoiled by this because those donors
that particular political constituency
they didn't expect anything in return if
you gave them a leaflet once a year in
the mail they'd be happy and they go
okay well hey I gave them a hundred
bucks and now I've got this worthless
leaflet this little you know a few
baited pieces of paper updating me on
what the Green Party has done during the
last 12 months and in reality that party
would have done nothing or almost
nothing they had a meeting you know hum
I remember talking to the man who was
the leader of the Green Party the
federal Green Party at that time again
this is years and years ago and he was
talking about getting you know a Green
Party youth organization and he was
hopeless this guy I mean I might as well
have been talking to a brick wall he was
an idiot for saying to him look you know
young people have other things to do
what you're talking about what he was
imagining it's gonna take up a lot of
their time and money and what are you
offering in return what's rewarding
about this or what's gratifying about
this so like you don't even have a
magazine for them to contribute to or
something you know if somebody publishes
an article in magazine and their name is
on it and they're maybe their photo is
on it even if there's no money back for
something like the Green Party for an
ecologic organization that can be really
rewarding I don't know if your magazine
is good enough maybe the person listed
on their CV I mean there are things any
political organization can do that
rewards participation and at that time
the Green Party was doing none of them I
said you're imagining you know the
youth as if they're gonna line up to
give you their their time and their
money when you're offering absolutely
nothing in return um uh III was having
that conversation I'm in a genuinely
helpful tone of voice unlike its what a
voice I just used now but it was
completely useless that guy that guy was
hopeless um so look this is the final
gap I want to talk about here is the gap
between digital vegans and the people
who are their potential patrons
politically speaking in any given city
wherever it is in the world YouTube does
not show me those people YouTube does
not show me the grandmothers who are
sitting at home who would write a check
and donate to support the Green Party or
who would donate to support a vegan
party a vegan cause of some kind if you
had an organization doing advocacy for
any particular issue under the heading
of veganism again whether it's save the
whales or save the river or setting up a
hotdog stand who are those people and
how do you reach out to them those
grandmothers writing the checks and
that'll be different it's different in
Spain it's different in Germany it's
different from one city to another in
Canada it's different in Montreal from
from Vancouver who are those people and
how do you reach them I can tell you one
thing for goddamn sure you are gonna
alienate those people you are not gonna
reach those people you are not gonna
earn their trust or support by
identifying yourself with Marxism
libertarianism intersectional feminism
or any other radical political ideology
that only provides vegans with the
ego-trip of being rebellious of being
revolutionary of being
anti-establishment it's the ego trip
that you know putting on a black mask
and calling yourself an anarchist well
what the really changes when you
take off the mask and look in the mirror
at the end of the day you're the same
person and you've now destroyed your
credibility with the only constituency
who could actually care about you and
sympathize with what you're trying to
accomplish in the long term so this is
part of the
blinding phenomenon of taking a
political movement on the Internet in
the past there were other problems when
political movements relied heavily on
magazines only a certain type of person
would be getting articles into the
magazine it would normally just be
people who lived in New York or just two
people who lived in Toronto you know in
the centers who were involved with you
know political publications and you
wouldn't hear anything from maybe the
majority of people who lived in more
more remote areas what not only remote
smaller cities suburbs what-have-you
there have always been distorting biases
of this kind in political organization
you know the dissidents who were
criticizing communism in Moscow in the
1980s they were almost all moneyed
intellectuals in Moscow and you weren't
hearing from you know the peasants of
the surrounding area because those are
the people who had access to
publications have you so these are
fundamental patterns and political
science but the internet blinds us as
never before as to who our audience is
and what our potential is to make a
positive difference by getting organized